DGL Homepage
============

This homepage is generated by [jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/tutorials/home/). However, because some plugins are not
supported by Github, we put all the jekyll related codes in the jekyll folder and put
the generated sites (all the stuffs in `_site` folder from jekyll) in the root folder.

Note that the DGL docs are standalone documents, and they are uploaded after being built with Sphinx and do not require Jekyll build. Therefore, the docs directory is not under /jekyll.

Requirements
------------
* Ruby
* [bundler](https://bundler.io/)

Setup
-----
In `jekyll` folder:
* `bundle install --path vendor/bundle`

Serve locally
-------------
In `jekyll` folder:
* `bundle exec jekyll serve --watch`

Scripts
-------
In the root folder:
* Copy the jekyll generated sites to root folder: `bash scripts/ship.sh`
* Build for production: `bash scripts/build_and_ship.sh`

How to upload your change
-------------------------
The `master` branch has been protected to avoid accidentally breaking our website.
Use PR to merge your changes instead. A common process:
* Create a branch and change some stuffs.
* Build the site.
* Clean, ship and serve locally to see whether the change is OK.
  - Be aware that some links might be broken. For example, all the {{site.url}} will point to
    `dgl.ai` so be careful not to jump to the currently hosting site.
* Push the branch, PR and merge.

What's in jekyll folder?
------------------------
Checkout [jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/tutorials/home/)'s tutorial before you proceed. Here, we list several usages (first cd into
`jekyll` folder):

* To change the `About` page, look at `about.md` for the text. For the `Our History` section,
  See `_includes/our_history.html`.
* To add change log in the `Updates` page, see `page/updates.html`.
* To add new blog, put your markdown file under `_post` folder. Follow the name convention as
  the other blogs in the folder. This is important for the blog page to render the correct date.
  You may read other stashed examples under `_bak` folder.
* Frontpage:
  - Add more tabs, see `_includes/navigation.html`.
  - `_includes/slider.html`
  - `_includes/box_content.html`
  - `_includes/testimonials.html`

Credits & License
-----------------
This website is customized over the ["documenter"](https://themeforest.net/item/documenter-all-in-one-support-knowledgebase-documentation-website-jekyll-template/21417158) template. Credits to the awesome designers.
For the inquiry of certificate of purchase, please email wmjlyjemaine@gmail.com.
